The Supply of Community Healthcare Services in the Midlands
================

## Project Outline

Community healthcare services such as district nursing and occupational
therapy are seen as an essential part of the health and care system. Yet
comparatively little is known about the level and distribution of these
services.

The intention of this project is to comprehensively describe community
services in the Midlands. As part of this work, we will explore the
extent to which supply varies across the region. In addition, we will
investigate whether higher rates of community health services are
associated with lower levels of unplanned hospital admissions - in
particular amongst frail older patients and those approaching the end of
their lives. Furthermore, we hope to explore and identify patterns in
the use of community services and examine how these patterns change in
the months leading up to death.

This work will help ICBs understand whether some commission higher
levels of community services than others, and what the result of this
variation might be.

## What are community health services?

(From <https://www.england.nhs.uk/community-health-services/>)

Shifting more care out of hospital and into the community is one of the
improvements outlined in the NHS Long Term Plan and will help ensure we
meet the changing health needs of the country over the coming decade.

Community health services cover a wide range of services and provide
care for people from birth to the end of their life. Community health
teams play a vital role in supporting people with complex health and
care needs to live independently in their own home for as long as
possible. Services also include health promotion services such as school
health services and health visiting services. Many services involve
partnership working across health and social care teams, made up of a
wide variety of professionals including GPs, community nurses, allied
health professionals, district nurses, mental health nurses, therapists
and social care workers.

Services are mainly delivered in people’s homes, (this includes care
homes) but also in community hospitals, intermediate care facilities,
clinics and schools.

Community health services include:

-   2 hour rapid crisis response services

-   District nursing

-   Child health services

-   Community occupational therapy

-   Community paediatric clinics

-   Community end of life and palliative care

-   Community physiotherapy

-   Musculoskeletal therapy

-   Pulmonary or cardiac rehabilitation

-   Community podiatry

-   Community speech and language therapy

-   Falls prevention services

-   Intermediate care services

-   Specialist nurses (for example, diabetes, COPD, heart failure,
    incontinence, tissue viability)

-   Bed-based community rehabilitation

-   Wheelchair services

-   Health visiting

-   School health services

-   Sexual health services

This list is not exhaustive.

Different types of organisations provide community health services
including NHS trusts, community interest companies, social enterprises,
local authorities and independent providers.

## Including Code

You can include R code in the document as follows:

``` r
summary(cars)
```

    ##      speed           dist       
    ##  Min.   : 4.0   Min.   :  2.00  
    ##  1st Qu.:12.0   1st Qu.: 26.00  
    ##  Median :15.0   Median : 36.00  
    ##  Mean   :15.4   Mean   : 42.98  
    ##  3rd Qu.:19.0   3rd Qu.: 56.00  
    ##  Max.   :25.0   Max.   :120.00

## Including Plots

You can also embed plots, for example:

![](README_files/figure-gfm/pressure-1.png)<!-- -->

Note that the `echo = FALSE` parameter was added to the code chunk to
prevent printing of the R code that generated the plot.
